So initially, we had the data warehouse,
and one might ask,
is there anything wrong with the data warehouse that we need something different?
But, there's nothing wrong per se.
Data warehouse is really mature, tried-and-true.
I mentioned modeling is extremely relevant to this day.
For many organizations, data warehouse is still the best way to go,
perhaps the only thing that needs to be
changed is maybe moving to the cloud or something.
But otherwise, still totally relevant.
So why do we need the data lake then?
The idea is that in recent years,
there are some factors drove the evolution of the data warehouse.
For example the abundance of unstructured data.
A lot, not everything is tabular.
There are unprecedented data volumes like social network dumps and censored data and
machine-generated stuff that comes from like
your smartwatch or things of that sort.
Then meanwhile also, we have seen a rise
of the big data technologies like HDFS and spark.
These became enablers for new opportunities.
Also, certain types of analyses that we're
not really that popular before like predictive analytics based on machine learning
and recommended systems and graph analytics became actually more topical and
also we had new roles in the organization so that the data warehouse audience were
basically the business users that needed to make decisions and gain insights.